What are some ways firms can engage in international business?
Importing and exporting, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company. 
What are examples of direct foreign investment?
Joint venture, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company.
What is direct foreign investment?
Buying a controlling stake in foreign operations.
What does direct foreign investment represent?
Direct foreign investment represents long-term investment, which countries like.
What are the two accounts that make up the balance of payments?
The current account and the capital account.
How do you calculate the current account balance?
current account = exports – imports
What does it mean if the current account is negative?
If the current account is negative, we import more than we export.
What does the financial account include?
The financial account includes all portfolio and direct foreign investments.
What is portfolio investment?
Portfolio investment it buying non-controlling stake in a company.
What should the sum of the financial account and the current account be? 
zero
What are trade frictions?
Trade frictions are ways to lessen the amount of imports and exports internationally traded.
What happens to the current account when US inflation increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What happens to the current account when U.S national income increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What is a foreign exchange market?
It is a market in which you exchange currencies.
What is a direct quote?
A direct quote is quoted in the amount of US dollars for the other currency.
What is an indirect quote?
An indirect quote is quoted in the amount of the foreign currency for US dollars.
What is a cross exchange rate?
Any quote not including US dollars.
What is a Eurodollar account?
It is a US dollar denominated account abroad.
Is there a reserve requirement on Eurodollar accounts?
No, there is no reserve requirement for Eurodollar accounts.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond that is not denominated in the country’s currency that it is sold in.
What is an example of a Eurobond?
An example could be a yen denominated bond sold in Brazil.
What is a foreign bond?
A foreign bond is a bond that is sold in another country.
What is an example of a foreign bond?
An example could be a Japanese bond denominated in yen.
Do bonds have more protective covenants than Eurobonds?
Bonds do have more protective covenants than Eurobonds.
What are some factors that affect exchange rates?
Inflation, income, interest rates, etc.
What are some types of exchange rate systems?
Fixed, freely floating, managed floating, and pegged.
What is a fixed exchange rate system?
In a fixed exchange rate system, the exchange rate is held constant or given small room to fluctuate.
How are exchange rates determined in a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rates are determined by market forces and have no intervention by governments.
Can governments intervene in a managed float exchange rate system?
Yes, governments are allowed to intervene.
What is a pegged exchange rate system?
A pegged exchange rate system is when the home currency is pegged to another foreign currency or to an index of currencies. 
What is arbitrage?
Capitalizing on different quoted prices and making a profit.
What are types of arbitrages?
Locational arbitrage, triangular arbitrage, and covered interest arbitrage.
What is locational arbitrage?
Locational arbitrage is when a currency is bought at a place that is priced low and sold at a different place that is priced higher.
What does triangular arbitrage capitalize on?
Discrepancies between cross exchange rates.
What is interest rate parity?
Interest rate parity is when interest rates and exchange rates adjust so covered interest arbitrages cannot happen.
What does the interest rate parity line represent?
It represents the spots where covered interest arbitrages are not possible.
What are the main components to the current account?
Payments for goods and services, factor income, and transfers.
What is dumping?
Dumping is when goods that were produced with help from government subsidies are exported.
What are examples of the influential factors of international trade?
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates.
What is intracompany trade?
Intracompany trade is when companies purchase products that are produced by their subsidies.
What is a mutinational corporating (MNC)?
Firms that engage in some form of internation business
Goal of MNC's is?
For their managers is to maximize the value of the firm.
Conflict of goals between a firm's managers and shareholders is?
Agency Promblem
The sarbanes oxley act (sox) is to?
Ensures a more transparent process for amanagers to report on the productivity and financial condition of their firm.
Comparative advantages is?
When a country specializes in some projucts, which allow firms to penetrate foreign markets
Imperfect market is?
Conditions where factors of production are some what immobile, costs, and often restrictions related to transfer of labor.
When firms become established in the home market as a result of some perceived advantage over existing competitors is a?
Product cycle theory
What is licensing?
Obligates a firm to provide its technology, compyrights, patents, trademarks, or trade name in exchange for fees or some other specified benefits.
Franchising is? 
Obligates a firm to provide a specialized sales or service strategy, support assistance and possibly an initial investment in the franchise in exchange for periodic fees.
Is a venture that is jointly owned and operated by two or more firms?
Joint Ventues
Any method of increasing international business that requires a direct investment in foreign operations normally is referred to as a?
Direct Foreign Investment (DFI)
The main components of the current account are payment for?
Merchandise (goods) and services, factor income and transfers.
Factor income is?
Represents income (interest and dividend payments) received by investors on foreign investments in financial assets (securities).
Balance of trade is referred to as?
The difference between total exports and imports.
A third component of the current account is?
Transfer payments.
The capital account includes?
The value of financial assets transferred across country borders by people who move to a different country.
Direct foreign investment represents?
The investment in fixed asset in foreign counries that can be used to conduct business operations.
Represents transaction invovling long term fiancial assets between countries that do not affect the transfer of control is?
Portfolio investment.
Counterpricing by competitors is?
When a country's currency weakens, its prices become more attractive to foreign customers, so many foregn companies lower thier prices to remian competiive with the country's firms.
Privatization is?
The selling of some of their operations to corporations and other investors. 
This organization was established to provide a forum for multilaterial trade negoriations and to settle trade disputes related to GATT?
World Trade Organization (WTO)
The foreign exchange market allows?
For the exchange of one currency for another.
Foreign exchange dealers serve as?
Intermediaries in the foreign exchange market by exchanging currencies desired by MNC's or individuals.
What is spot rate?
The exchange rate at which one currency is traded for another in the spot market.
The bid/ask spread represents?
The differential between the bid and ask quotes and is intended to cover the costs involved in accommodating requests to exchange currencies.
Quotations that represent the value of a foreign currency in dollars are referred to as?
Direct Quotations
A forward contract is?
An agreement between a foreign exchange dealer and the MNC that specifies the currencies to be exchanged, exchange rate, and date transaction occurs.
A currency futures contract specfies?
A standard volume of a particular currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date.
A currency call option provides?
The right to buy a specific currency at a specific price, within a specific period of time.
A decline in a currency's value is often referred to as?
Depreciation
Currency futures contracts are?
Contracts specifying a standard volume of a particlar currency to be exchanged on a specific settlement date.
What is a straddle?
Uses both a put option and a call option at the same exercise price.
Fixed exchange rate system is a ?
Exchange rate either held constant or allowed to fluctoate only within very narrow boundaries.
This reduces the value of its curreny against other currencise?
Devalue
This icreases the value of its currency against other currencise?
Revalue
In a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rate values are determined by market forces withot invenvention by governments.
The European Central Bank is?
Based in Frankfurt and is responsible for setting monetary policy for all participating European countries.
When the Fed intervenus in the foreign exchange market without adjusting for change in the money supply it is engaging in a ?
Nonsterilized intervention
In a sterilized intervention the Fed?
Intervenes in the foreign exchange market and simutaneously engages in offsetting transactions in the Treasury securties market.
Arbitrage can?
Be loosely defined as capitalizing on a discrepancy in quoted prices by making a riskless profit.  


